Loan welcome back in this lecture I want to provide a solution to the challenge from the previous lecture
which is implementing the fly pattern to simulate a counterstrike game.
Basically are players wouldn't want to create a new instance for every single player.
We want to share them and so we're gonna use the fly away to share common characteristics and then use
extreme Tech Data to have not common characteristics.
So we're gonna name this flyweight solution.
First thing we want to do is we want to create this flyaway interface.
This will contain remember the extrinsic data and the interface that the concrete shared fly which we
use.
It's going to say new Java class.
This is gonna be called player and this is gonna be an interface.
This is gonna have a method for extrinsic data extrinsic.
I can spell that.
It's also a hard word to say by the way
and this is just gonna be it a sine weapon
string weapon
and then we're going to also have our mission method in here.
Something like that.
We then need to create our concave fly weights.
These are gonna be shared.
We're gonna have a terrorist and a counterterrorist so we're gonna say class terrorist implements player
and the intrinsic attribute here is gonna be our task.
This is gonna be a private final String task and then we're gonna have we're going to store our extrinsic
state which usually is stored in the client but for testing purposes we're going to store it in here.
This is gonna be our weapon so we can use the weapon on our mission instead of having to pass it to
the mission.
So we're gonna say private String weapon and then our constructor
is going to set the task.
So here we're just going to whoops
here we're just going to say our task equals plant plan a bomb something
and we have to implement our assigned weapon.
So gonna say assign a weapon
which takes a string for the weapon.
This is going to set our member variable stop weapon equals weapon.
And then our mission is just gonna print out some hard coded data.
So going gonna say public void mission doesn't take any parameters no data and arguments.
And this is just good how hard code some basically the terrorists the weapon they're using.
Terrorists with weapon
class weapon plus we're just gonna plus the weapon and then we'll say task is plus task something like
that
and then we're gonna end our class for our player are there fly away is gonna be shared as the counterterrorist
which is gonna be very similar to this.
Someone to do some cutting and pasting
and this one is gonna be called Counter Terrorist.
This is going to have a task and a weapon.
It's not going to plan a bomb.
It's going to defuse a bomb.
Fuse about it's going to sign the weapon and instead of saying terrorists it's gonna say counterterrorist
counter terrorist with weapon weapon and task so forth.
Now we need to create the factory.
This is gonna just be called a player factory
player factory
and this needs to store a hash map so that it can do the lock up and get really similar to a singleton.
Except that it's not implemented as a single it uses things in the hash map.
So we're gonna store all of our reference objects for terrorists and counterterrorist in the stash map.
Private static hash map the hash map is going to be a string and a player we'll call it H M
and this is gonna say new hash map string player.
This will be initialized the class loading time.
We're going to have a method to get a player.
This is our factory method.
So we're gonna say give player.
We're gonna pass and the type
we're gonna initialize local variable to null and we're going to check if the object is already stored
for counter terrorist or terrorists and if it is we're gonna return the reference.
So we're gonna say if a gem that contains key and the key would be the type.
And if it does we will set the player to the type from the hash table.
So we'll say get and we'll just say type something like that.
Else we're going to have to create an object so we're going to switch on the type and do something like
this
with our bracket.
So we're gonna say switch on the type if it's a terrorist we're gonna put up print out terrorist created
and create a new terrorist if it's a counter terrorist we're gonna print out counterterrorist create
and create new counter terrorists right in regardless of what it is we're gonna put it in to a hash
table and you might say well the default if you read the default they pass and something else it's going
to be stored in the hash table but we're gonna make sure the client smart so we're gonna put the type
and the P in the hash table so we can manage our shared objects and then we're gonna return p we want
to make sure that it's in the right spot.
We're going to turn P and then close our method and close our class.
There we go.
Now we need to create the client.
It's a new class
client.
We should by name this counter strike.
And in here this is going to get all the players the types and the weapons and we're gonna use a create
a helper method for getting a random weapon.
So here we're going to get all player types and used by get random and random weapons.
So we're gonna create a couple static variables player type and a bunch of weapons gloss to create objects
quicker.
So we have player types terrorist counterterrorist and we have weapons a bunch of different weapons
and I guess those are weapons don't let's say Desert Eagle I'm not sure what that is.
But AK 47 I know Maverick I don't know.
There must be I must be a gun not a gun guy
but let's have our static void main
and then we can go through and create a bunch of objects.
So we're gonna assume that we have a total of 10 players in the game so we're gonna write a for loop
that creates 10 players or shares to share a certain amount of players to give player is gonna call
a helper function to get random players.
So we may have so get random player well defined in the second and then we're gonna also assign random
weapons.
So we're going to do something like this sign random weapons are going to create two helper methods
and then we're gonna send them on the mission
do something like that.
This needs to be inside the for loop
and we're gonna close our for loop we're gonna close our main close our class and then write our helper
methods to get random player type just going to return a random at and do some mapping.
So again I like to put my methods above the main.
So these are a couple utility methods get random player type uses the Random class returns one or two
and then it's gonna look it up in the array 1 or 2 or 0 or 1 I'm sorry.
Should we should return 0 or 1 terrorists or counterterrorist and so we're just mapping random integers
to array indices themes gonna same thing is going to happen for the random weapon except here will generate
zero to 4
five should not be inclusive.
Two should not be inclusive to be exclusive.
Because you have an array index out of bounds.
OK.
And that's our client.
So now let's see if we compile
and I do have an error like usual I forgot to change the constructor num name.
Try this again okay.
Now when we run our client
we can see the flyway in action.
So we created 10 objects can see we create a counterterrorist the first time and then we reuse the counterterrorist
with an AK 47.
We create a terrorist the first time and then we use the terrorists every time after that we shared
an object with a different extrinsic data a different weapon and every time you run this it should be
a little bit more random with the weapons and the players create it right.
See although random is not always random.
There we go that's a little better but you get the gist.
This is demonstration of the flyway design pattern a solution if you have any questions please ask him
in the Q and A thank you.